Constrained Beam Search Blog Post (#232)
huggingface/blog: constrained-beam-search.md

---
title: Hyperparameter Search with Transformers and Ray Tune
thumbnail: /blog/assets/06_ray_tune/ray-hf.jpg
---

<h1>
	Guiding Text Generation with Constrained Beam Search in 🤗 Transformers
</h1>

<div class="blog-metadata">
    <small>Published March 10, 2022.</small>
    <a target="_blank" class="btn no-underline text-sm mb-5 font-sans" href="https://github.com/huggingface/blog/blob/master/constrained-beam-search.md">
        Update on GitHub
    </a>
</div>

<div class="author-card">
    <a href="/cwkeam">
        <img class="avatar avatar-user" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/8522953?v=4" title="Gravatar">
        <div class="bfc">
            <code>cwkeam</code>

>             <span class="fullname">Chan Woo Kim</span>

Author: done!

    <img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open In Colab"/>
</a>

## **Introduction**

This blog post assumes that the reader is familiar with text generation methods using the different variants of beam search, as explained in in the blog post: ["How to generate text: using different decoding methods for language generation with Transformers"](https://huggingface.co/blog/how-to-generate)

Unlike ordinary beam search, **constrained** beam search allows us to exert control over the output of text generation. This is useful because, sometimes, we know exactly what we want inside the output. For example, in a Neural Machine Translation task, we might know which words must be included in the final translation with a dictionary lookup. Sometimes, generation outputs that are almost equally possible to a language model might not be equally deseriable for the end-user due to the particular context. Both of these situations could be solved by allowing the users to tell the model which words must be included in the end output. 

### **Why It's Difficult**

> However, this is actually a very non-trivial problem. This is because the task requires us to force the generation of certain subsequences *somewhere* in the final output, at *some point* during the generation. 

Author: [leaving this unchanged]
I'm saying "actually" since, on the surface, it looks like an easy problem to solve. The rest is personal writing style I think (think the shorter sentences are easier to read as well)

The problem is that beam search generates the sequence *token-by-token*. Though not entirely accurate, one can think of beam search as the function \\( B(\mathbf{s}_{0:i}) = s_{i+1} \\), where it looks as the currently generated sequence of tokens from \\( 0 \\) to \\( i \\) then predicts the next token at \\( i+1 \\) . But how can this function know, at an arbitrary step \\( i < k \\) , that the tokens must be generated at some future step \\( k \\) ? Or when it's at the step \\( i=k \\) , how can it know for sure that this is the best spot to force the tokens, instead of some future step \\( i>k \\) ?

![Why constraints are hard](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cwkeam/scientific-images/main/why_constraints_are_hard.png)

And what if you have multiple constraints with varying requirements? What if you want to force the phrase \\( p_1=\{t_1, t_2\} \\) *and* also the phrase \\( p_2=\{ t_3, t_4, t_5, t_6\} \\) ? What if you want the model to **choose between** the two phrases? What if we want to force the phrase \\( p_1 \\) and force just one phrase among the list of phrases \\( \{p_{21}, p_{22}, p_{23}\} \\) ? 

> The above are actually very reasonable use-cases, as it will be shown below, and the new constrained beam search feature allows for all of them!

Author: [leaving unchanged]
im saying "actually" because the above example sounds very contrived, but they're actually very reasonable. Also it's not shown directly below but it's shown very much later, so current wording makes more sense I think (as shown below suggests its foud right below the paragraph).

    Wie alt bist du?

### **With Constrained Beam Search**

But what if we knew that we wanted a formal output instead of the informal one? What if we were able to know from prior knowledge what the generation must include and we were able to *inject it* into the generation?

The following is what is possible now with the `force_words_ids` keyword argument to `model.generate()`:

```python
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("t5-base")
model = AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM.from_pretrained("t5-base")

encoder_input_str = "translate English to German: How old are you?"

force_words = ["Sie"]

input_ids = tokenizer(encoder_input_str, return_tensors="pt").input_ids
force_words_ids = tokenizer(force_words, add_special_tokens=False).input_ids

outputs = model.generate(
    input_ids,
    force_words_ids=force_words_ids,
    num_beams=5,
    num_return_sequences=1,
    no_repeat_ngram_size=1,
    remove_invalid_values=True,
)

print("Output:\n" + 100 * '-')
print(tokenizer.decode(outputs[0], skip_special_tokens=True))
```

    Output:
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Wie alt sind Sie?

> As you can see, we were able to guide the generation with prior knowledge about our desired output. Previously we would've had to generate a bunch of possible outputs, then filter the ones that fit our requirement. Now we can do that at the generation stage.

Author: [leaving unchanged] though I agree with taking out "..able to" for previous parts, I think there I want to emphasize our new ***ability*** to do this here. Also comma before "then" is fine I think and I like how it separates the two to convey the feeling that it's a more annoying and lengthier process

    no_repeat_ngram_size=1,
    remove_invalid_values=True,
)

print("Output:\n" + 100 * '-')
print(tokenizer.decode(outputs[0], skip_special_tokens=True))
print(tokenizer.decode(outputs[1], skip_special_tokens=True))

```

    Setting `pad_token_id` to `eos_token_id`:50256 for open-end generation.

    Output:
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The soldiers, who were all scared and screaming at each other as they tried to get out of the
    The child was taken to a local hospital where she screamed and scared for her life, police said.

As you can see, the first output used `"screaming"`, the second output used `"screamed"`, and both used `"scared"` verbatim. The list to choose from `["screaming", "screamed", ...]` doesn't have to be word forms; this can satisfy any use-case where we need just one from a list of words.

## **Traditional Beam search**

The following is an example of traditional **beam search**, taken from a previous [blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/how-to-generate):

![Beam search](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/patrickvonplaten/scientific_images/master/beam_search.png)

> Unlike greedy search, beam search works by keeping a longer list of hypotheses. In the above picture, we have displayed 3 next possible tokens at each possible step in the generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike greedy search, beam search works by keeping a long list of hypotheses. In the above picture, we have displayed three following possible tokens at each possible step in the generation.
```

Author: Tried to mean that greedy search just works with one hypotheses and beam search works with longer. Will change 3 -> three though

Here's another way to look at the first step of the beam search for the above example, in the case of `num_beams=3`:

![Beam search step 1](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cwkeam/scientific-images/main/beam_1.jpg)

Instead of only choosing `"The dog"` like what a greedy search would do, a beam search would allow *further consideration* of `"The nice"` and `"The car"`.

In the next step, we consider the next possible tokens for each of the three branches we created in the previous step.

> ![Beam search step 2](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cwkeam/scientific-images/main/beam_2.jpg)

Reviewer: Should this image and others be switched to the one in this repo?

Author: agreed. I was just worried one would get no images at all while reading this before merge

Bank \\( n \\) refers to the ***list of beams that have made \\( n \\) steps progress in fulfilling the constraints***. After sorting all the possible beams into their respective banks, we do a round-robin selection. With the above example, we'd select the most probable output from Bank 2, then most probable from Bank 1, one from Bank 0, the second most probable from Bank 2, the second most probable from Bank 1, and so forth. Since we're using `num_beams=3`, we just do the above process three times to end up with `["The is fast", "The dog is", "The dog and"]`.

This way, even though we're *forcing* the model to consider the branch where we've manually appended the desired token, we still keep track of other high-probable sequences that probably make more sense. Even though `"The is fast"` fulfills our constraint completely, it's not a very sensible phrase. Luckily, we have `"The dog is"` and `"The dog and"` to work with in future steps, which hopefully will lead to more sensible outputs later on.

This behavior is demonstrated in the third step of the above example:

![Constrained Beam Search Step 3](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cwkeam/scientific-images/main/cbeam_3.jpg)

> Notice how `"The is fast"` doesn't require any manual appending of constraint tokens since it's already fulfilled (i.e. already contains the phrase `"is fast"`). Also notice how beams like `"The dog is slow"` or `"The dog is mad"` is actually in Bank 0, since, although it includes the token `"is"`, it must restart from the beginning in order to generate `"is fast"`. By appending something like `"slow"` after `"is"`, it has effectively *reset its progress*. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice how `"The is fast"` doesn't require any manual appending of constraint tokens since it's already fulfilled (i.e., already contains the phrase `"is fast"`). Also, notice how beams like `"The dog is slow"` or `"The dog is mad"` is actually in Bank 0, since, although it includes the token `"is"`, it must restart from the beginning to generate `"is fast"`. By appending something like `"slow"` after `"is"`, it has effectively *reset its progress*. 
```

> And finally notice how we ended up at a sensible output that contains our constraint phrase: `"The dog is fast"`! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And finally, notice how we ended up at a sensible output that contains our constraint phrase: `"The dog is fast"`! 
```

> We were worried in the beginning because just blindly appending the desired tokens led to nonsensicle phrases like `"The is fast"`. However, with the use of round-robin selection from banks, we implicitly ended up getting rid of nonsensical outputs in preference for the more sensible outputs.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We were worried initially because blindly appending the desired tokens led to nonsensical phrases like `"The is fast"`. However, using round-robin selection from banks, we implicitly ended up getting rid of nonsensical outputs in preference for the more sensible outputs. 
```

```python
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM, PhrasalConstraint

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("t5-base")
model = AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM.from_pretrained("t5-base")

encoder_input_str = "translate English to German: How old are you?"

constraints = [
    PhrasalConstraint(
        tokenizer("Sie", add_special_tokens=False).input_ids
    )
]

input_ids = tokenizer(encoder_input_str, return_tensors="pt").input_ids

outputs = model.generate(
    input_ids,
    constraints=constraints,
    num_beams=10,
    num_return_sequences=1,
    no_repeat_ngram_size=1,
    remove_invalid_values=True,
)

print("Output:\n" + 100 * '-')
print(tokenizer.decode(outputs[0], skip_special_tokens=True))
```

    Output:
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Wie alt sind Sie?

> In order to design your own unique constraints, you can define one yourself and input it into the `constraints` keyword argument. You just have to create a sub-class of the `Constraint` abstract interface class and follow its requirements. More information about this can be found in the definition of `Constraint` found [here](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/master/src/transformers/generation_beam_constraints.py).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define one yourself and input it into the `constraints` keyword argument to design your unique constraints. You just have to create a sub-class of the `Constraint` abstract interface class and follow its requirements. You can find more information in the definition of `Constraint` found [here](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/master/src/transformers/generation_beam_constraints.py).
```

`TemplateConstraints` could allow for a more niche use of the feature, where the objective can be something like:

```python
starting_text = "The woman"
template = ["the", "", "School of", "", "in"]

possible_outputs == [
   "The woman attended the Ross School of Business in Michigan.",
   "The woman was the administrator for the Harvard school of Business in MA."
]
```

or:
```python
starting_text = "The woman"
template = ["the", "", "", "University", "", "in"]

possible_outputs == [
   "The woman attended the Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh.",
]
impossible_outputs == [
  "The woman attended the Harvard University in MA."
]
``` 

or if the user does not care about the number of tokens that can go in between two words, then one can just use `OrderedConstraint`.

## **Conclusion**

> Constrained beam search gives us a flexible means to inject external knowledge and requirements into text generation. Previously, there was no easy way to tell the model to 1. include a list of sequences where 2. some of which are optional and some are not, such that 3. they're generated *somewhere* in the sequence at reasonable respective positions. Now, with a mix of different subclasses of `Constraint` objects, we can have full control over our generation! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Constrained beam search gives us a flexible means to inject external knowledge and requirements into text generation. Previously, there was no easy way to tell the model to 1. include a list of sequences where 2. some of which are optional and some are not, such that 3. they're generated *somewhere* in the sequence at respective reasonable positions. Now, we can have full control over our generation with a mix of different subclasses of `Constraint` objects! 
```

This new feature is based mainly on the following papers:

 - [Fast Lexically Constrained Decoding with Dynamic Beam Allocation for Neural Machine Translation](https://arxiv.org/abs/1804.06609)
 - [Improved Lexically Constrained Decoding for Translation and Monolingual Rewriting](https://aclanthology.org/N19-1090/)
 - [Guided Generation of Cause and Effect](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2107.09846.pdf)

> Many new research papers recently, like the ones above, are exploring ways of using external knowledge (e.g. KGs, KBs) to guide the outputs of large deep learning models. Hopefully this constrained beam search feature becomes another effective way to achieve this purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like the ones above, many new research papers are exploring ways of using external knowledge (e.g., KGs, KBs) to guide the outputs of large deep learning models. Hopefully, this constrained beam search feature becomes another effective way to achieve this purpose.
```
